---
title: What is the Optimism Collective?
lang: en-US
---

The [Optimism Collective](https://app.optimism.io/announcement) is a band of companies, communities, and citizens working together to reward public goods and build a sustainable future for Ethereum.
    
Together we will dispel the myth that public goods cannot be profitable. 
Public goods (such as Optimism and Ethereum) often go underfunded when incentives aren't properly aligned, forcing many to make trade-offs between earning a profit and building for the common good.
We are bound by a mutually beneficial pact, [our vision](https://www.optimism.io/vision) can be summed up with the equation **Impact = Profit**.
    
### How can we achieve this?

The Optimism Collective will deploy a new model for rewarding those who create or sustain public goods. 
We shall use a [retroactive public goods funding model](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/retroactive-public-goods-funding-33c9b7d00f0c), sustained by the revenue generated by Optimism (and eventually other Collective members), to support projects and communities building for the common good. 

Most of our public goods funding is going to be retroactive because it is relatiely easy to agree on what *is* useful, and see who built it.
It is a lot harder to identify in advance what *will be* useful, and which team will do the best job of building it.
We expect that the possibility of an eventual exit payment will encourage investors to fund initial development efforts until the usefulness is obvious, in the same way that the possibility of an eventual IPO or buy out by a larger company encourages investors to fund startups today.

[Read here](economics.md/#value-from-public-goods-drives-demand-for-blockspace) to see how we expect the value proposal of the Collective to be a positive feedback loop and reinforce itself.


### How is this going to be governed?

We will take [an experimental and agile approach to governance](https://optimism.mirror.xyz/r888e4B5iiNQi-3_mO26ixgv-plQ099XWgqEOv9iWKA) to relentlessly iterate until we form a system which can stand the test of time.
Initially we are using a new model of digital democratic governance that consists of two houses: the *Token House* and the *Citizens' House*. 
    

## Token House

Governance of the Optimism Collective has begun with the launch of OP and the Token House. 
OP was distributed to hundreds of thousands of addresses that have engaged in positive-sum, community-oriented behavior with [Airdrop #1](airdrop-1.md). 
You can read more about the [distribution criteria here](airdrop-1.md). 

As Token House members, OP holders are responsible for submitting, deliberating, and voting on various types of governance proposals. 
In carrying out these functions, OP holders may either vote directly, or [delegate their OP voting power to an eligible third party](delegate.md).

The Token House votes on these proposal types:

- [Governance fund](gov-fund.md) grants.

  The purpose of the Governance Fund is to incentivize sustainable growth of projects and communities in the Optimism ecosystem. 
  This does not mean that all grants must be incentive programs. 
  The Token House is welcome to consider any and all proposals which would drive growth or address a gap in the Optimism ecosystem, including public goods projects.

  Governance funds should come with an expectation of growth-related deliverables. 
  It is *not* the intended purpose of the governance fund to retroactively fund public goods without an expectation of future work.
  There is [a distinct OP allocation](allocations.md#retroactive-public-goods-funding) dedicated to this, which will be distributed via the Citizens' House at a later date. 

- Protocol upgrades
- Inflation adjustment
- Director removal
- Treasury appropriations
- The rights of token holders

[Read here for more details.](token-house.md)
 
    
## Citizens' House

The Citizens' House is a large-scale experiment in [non-plutocratic governance](https://vitalik.ca/general/2021/08/16/voting3.html) and retroactive funding of public goods. 
Citizenship will be conferred by [**"soulbound"**](https://vitalik.ca/general/2022/01/26/soulbound.html) non-transferrable NFTs, and the set of Citizens will grow over time. The exact mechanism for distributing Citizenships will be determined by the Foundation with input from the Token House.

The Citizens' House is responsible for [retroactive public goods funding (RPGF)](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/retroactive-public-goods-funding-33c9b7d00f0c). 
The funds for RPGF will come from several sources:

- [20% of the initial OP supply is dedicated to RPGF](allocations.md#retroactive-public-goods-funding)
- Redeployment of some of the sequencer revenue generated on Optimism
- The creation of new OP tokens through [inflation](allocations.md#token-distribution-details)
- Donations from other sources.
  If you want to contribute to retroPGF, you can send ETH, ERC-20 tokens, or NFTs to the ENS address **retroPGF.eth**. 
  It is supported on [Optimism](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x15dda60616ffca20371ed1659dbb78e888f65556) as well as [Ethereum mainnet](https://etherscan.io/address/0x15dda60616ffca20371ed1659dbb78e888f65556). 
  Anything donated will be allocated to the next RetroPFG round. 
  These funds do not go to OP Labs or the Optimism Foundation. 
  The Foundation will help distribute funds according to the Citizens’ House governance process.

[Read here for more details.](citizens-house.md)
