---
title: OVM 2.0 Changeset
lang: en-US
---

::: tip OVM 2.0 Release Dates
OVM 2.0 is already released on the Kovan test network.
On October 28th we will deploy it to the production Optimistic Ethereum network.
:::

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

For OVM 2.0 we will have a series of breaking changes as a part of an upgrade to the OVM. Fundamentally, this will drastically reduce the differences between the OVM and EVM so that developers can implement their contracts with mostly just one target in mind, instead of managing OVM idiosyncrasies with separate contracts. Thus the changes can be viewed as a reversion to most things listed on this page [https://community.optimism.io/docs/protocol/evm-comparison.html](../../protocol/evm-comparison.md). Here is the list of key breaking changes to watch for:

1. Contracts whose source code has not been verified on Etherscan 
   ([Kovan](https://kovan-optimistic.etherscan.io/verifyContract),
   [Optimistic Ethereum](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/verifyContract))
   will be wiped out along with their storage.

1. Contracts whose source code has been verified will be recompiled 
   with the standard Solidity compiler. As a result of this:
   1. The `EXTCODEHASH` and `CODESIZE` of every contract will change.
      Any hardcoded values will break.
   1. The address generated by `CREATE2` may be different (it depends on
      the constructor code).
   1. Code size will no longer be increased during compilation. Any 
      custom OVM work that required reducing code size could now 
      be reverted.
   1. Uniswap pools will be moved to their L1-equivalent 
      addresses corresponding to `CREATE2` with the new bytecode. For more detail, see the [Uniswap](#uniswap) section below

1. ETH will no longer be ERC20 compatible.
   1. If you need wrapped ETH we deployed a standard 
      [WETH9](https://blog.0xproject.com/canonical-weth-a9aa7d0279dd) contract
      at `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000006`.
   1. To withdraw ETH you call the `withdraw` function of
      [`L2StandardBridge`](../../protocol/protocol-2.0.md)
      with an L2 token address of
      `0xDeadDeAddeAddEAddeadDEaDDEAdDeaDDeAD0000`.

1. Our fee scheme will be altered. 
   [See here for details](new-fees.md)

1. EOAs will no longer be contract wallets
    1. Currently, every new EOA in Optimistic Ethereum deploys a proxy
       contract to that address, making every EOA a contract account.
    1. After the upgrade, every known contract account will be reverted 
       to an EOA with no code.
    1.  To best handle the upgrade, we recommend you write your contracts 
        to handle normal EOAs and to make no assumptions around EOAs
        having code or additional OVM-specific functionality.

1. Gas usage will decrease to be the same as on L1 Ethereum.
   1. Currently, the OVM results in an increase in gas usage because of compiled OVM opcodes, sometimes inflating gas costs by up to 10x the costs on L1 Ethereum.
   1. With this OVM upgrade, gas usage on Optimistic Ethereum should now exactly match the expected gas usage from a deployment to (L1) pre-London Ethereum in almost all cases.

1. Certain opcodes will have updated functionality:
    1. `NUMBER` - `block.number` in L2 will now correspond to the L2 
       block number, not “Last finalized L1 block number” like it used to. Any project currently using `block.number` must check that this will not break their implementation. The L1 Block number will be made accessible via a new predeployed contract.
    1. `COINBASE` is set by the sequencer. For the near-term future, 
       it will return the `OVM_SequencerFeeVault` address (currently `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000011`)
    1. `DIFFICULTY` will return 0
    1. `BLOCKHASH` will return the L2 block hash. Note that this value 
       can be manipulated by the sequencer and is not a safe source of randomness.
    1. `SELFDESTRUCT` will now work just as it currently works in the EVM.
    1. `GASPRICE` will now return the l2GasPrice
    1. `BASEFEE` will be unsupported - execution will revert if it is 
       used.
    1. `ORIGIN` will be supported normally.
1. Certain OVM system contracts will be wiped from the state. We will remove:
    1.  `OVM_ExecutionManager`
    1.  `OVM_SequencerEntrypoint`
    1. `OVM_StateManager`
    1. `OVM_StateManagerFactory`
    1. `OVM_SafetyChecker`
    1. `OVM_ECDSAContractAccount`
    1. `OVM_ExecutionManagerWrapper`
    1. `Lib_AddressManager`
    
    All other OVM predeploys will remain at the same addresses as before the regenesis
1. `TIMESTAMP` will function the same as before, updating with each new deposit or after 5 minutes if there has not been a deposit. `TIMESTAMP` will still correspond to "Last Finalized L1 Timestamp" - [See here for details](block-time.md)


### Javascript Code

1. Until OVM 2.0 is officially released, the OVM 2.0 packages are tagged as `canary`,
   here is an example `package.json` file:

   ```javascript
   {
      "name": "standard-bridge-tutorial",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "license": "MIT",
      "scripts": {
         "clean": "rimraf ./cache && rimraf ./artifacts",
         "compile": "yarn clean && hardhat compile && hardhat --network optimism compile"
      },
      "dependencies": {
         "@eth-optimism/contracts": "canary",
         "@eth-optimism/core-utils": "canary",
         "rimraf": "^3.0.2"
      }
   }
   ```

1. Contract names no longer start with `OVM_` and their directory location changed.
   [Here are the details](contracts-2.0.md).

1. Because we no longer have an address manager on L2, the way to get the address of
   `L1CrossDomainMessenger` is to start from the `L2CrossDomainMessenger` contract:

   ```javascript
   const { predeploys, getContractInterface } = require('@eth-optimism/contracts')   
   
   const l2Messenger = new ethers.Contract(
      predeploys.L2CrossDomainMessenger,
      getContractInterface('L2CrossDomainMessenger'),
      l2RpcProvider
   )
   const l1Messenger = new ethers.Contract(
      await l2Messenger.l1CrossDomainMessenger(),
      getContractInterface('L1CrossDomainMessenger'),
      l1RpcProvider
   )
   const l1MessengerAddress = l1Messenger.address
   // L2 messenger address is always the same, 0x42....07
   const l2MessengerAddress = l2Messenger.address
   ```

1. There is no longer an `artifacts-ovm` directory. The OVM 2.0 artifacts are the
   same as the artifacts you use for L1.   

## Applications

### Uniswap    

As bytecode is updated, the codeHash for Uniswap pools will be altered, 
as will be their CREATE2 addresses. This means we will be shifting 
all Uniswap pools to new CREATE2 addresses corresponding to the 
updated pool bytecode.

We will also be migrating the ERC20 balances of each Uniswap pool to 
their new CREATE2'ed addresses.

If your contracts rely on Uniswap pool addresses, ensure that 
you calculate them using the `getPoolAddress` function


::: warning
As with all regenesis-es, all historical transactions and logs will be inaccessible from the new chain, and the new chain will start from Block #0. The old chain data will not be accessible except under extreme circumstances. Applications like Dune Analytics, Tenderly, Etherscan, and the Graph will not support access to transactions or logs from before the regenesis.
:::
